---
layout: post
title: Hindsight ain't 20/20
date: 2021-10-27T02:55:00Z
tags: general
---

[Immersive daydreaming](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Maladaptive_daydreaming) has been a regular part of life since preadolescence. Falling into a world far divorced from the reality we live. A world where I can do anything. Go anywhere, and be _anyone_. And for more than two decades I've escaped into this place; but recently, the _anyone_ I am is always the same chaotic, eccentric, enchanting woman.

As my internal world is further developed into one dominated by my female persona, feelings of gender confusion grow stronger in day-to-day life. At first, I thought the confusion was a result of the otherworld. But as time passes, I'm not so sure it's the cause, but a symptom.

---

Here's an attempt to gather a list of symptoms. This certainly won't be exhaustive or particularly detailed. But I think its representative of my internal struggle. Those outside may be able to look at this list and say it's clear I'm suffering from dysphoria and should take steps to accept it. Though from the inside, it just feels like a confusing soup of data which might point to that conclusion -- or 100 others. 

### Daydreaming
The introduction sums up the gist well enough, and I think I'd like to examine the immersive daydreaming in depth in future posts. But its relation to my identity conflicts have been relatively recent. Relative may be a bit disingenuous though. Seeing and representing myself as a woman within the confines of my own universe has been a consist aspect of my daydreams for seven years (as of the publishing of this piece). Compared to the length I've been avidly daydreaming, seven years is a relatively new phenomenon.

I remember when I first began to project myself into this world as female. May 2014. I don't know what about that time drove this change. It was certainly a life changing year. But nothing which I could clearly associate with a new persona.

It was complicated at first. I'd spend hours thinking if it was "appropriate" my other self could be female. Would that change aspects of relationships in my world? Would other characters understand, would they be angry? Does that even matter? I could just snap them into acceptance. But soon after those thoughts subsided. 

And for many years, I just accepted myself as someone who could "flip" or "transform" between a male and female. This was statis. The norm for so long. Yeah. I lived another live which no one "IRL" knew about. One where I was a girl 75% of the time. And a boy the other 25%. 

Then about two years ago, I just stopped "flipping". I was just me; the single womanly me. Until recently, I hadn't even noticed I stopped. It just was reality. 

### Media Identity Association
I have always found it odd I've always chose to play the female gendered character in video games when given the choice. Or I always identify or emphasize with female leads in movies, TV, books, etc. I usually play a female character in D&D and choose to represent myself with a female avatar in online spaces. 

For most of my life, I couldn't put my finger on why I did those things. I couldn't express or justify how I felt validated in these benign choices, until I found [The Gender Dysphoria Bible](https://genderdysphoria.fyi/en). The chapter on [Managed Dysphoria](https://genderdysphoria.fyi/en/managed-dysphoria) is particularly interesting. Upon reading the first section on common coping mechanisms, something just clicked. I had thought to myself "Yeah, this makes sense. This is exactly right."


